from this diagram we are going to learn
how
basically an automobile engine works
this is a cylinder this is basically one
cylinder that we have and this is these
are the walls of this cylinder and this
is the piston that we have and this
piston is what moves up and down and we
have two inlets one inlet is for fuel
and ox and air to come in a mixture and
this is a valve that opens and closes
and there is another outlet here that
takes out the exhaust gasses and there
is another valve that opens and closes
at appropriate times and when the fuel
and air mixture is inside this spark
plug provides a spark to ignite the
mixture now let's see in sequence what
happens in this cylinder this piston
basically moves up and down so the first
step is to bring the fuel and oxidizer
or air inside the mixture so this valve
opens up this valve of course is closed
and this fuel and air mixture comes in
as the push as this piston is pushed
down this acts like a syringe medical
syringe when we push this down the fuel
and air mixture is basically sucked in
and it fills up this entire wall you as
this piston comes down that is the first
step or stroke this is a four stroke
engine that we are talking about first
stroke is intake and the second stroke
now the second step is we close both of
these valves and push this mixture this
mixture is again by pushing the piston
up this mixture that is in here is
compressed is compressed to very high
pressures roughly about eight times to
nine times
and this piston moves back up here and
again we have to spend energy to move
this piston up or compress this mixture
here when this mixture is compressed to
the rococo to the predetermined
pressures at that time the spark plug
ignites this mixture and this flame
front travels all the way and burns all
this fuel and this fuel reaches really
high temperatures and it pushes the
piston all the way down all the way down
so this is actually the power stroke the
first stroke is intake the second stroke
is compression compression and the third
stroke is the power stroke that is the
stroke that gives us the power from this
engine and the first stroke in the
second stroke we have to supply the
energy that is required to to bring in
the oxidizer and fuel and also to
compress and after this after this
mixture expands or pushes the piston
down this valve this exhaust valve will
open and of course this valve is still
closed and the put piston again moves
back up and which for which we have to
supply the power and all these gases go
out through this exhaust and once the
exhaust gases around this cylinder close
this valve closes again and this valve
opens and the entire cycle again repeats
so the fourth stroke is the exhaust
stroke so this is a force basically
four-stroke engine that we are talking
about we need to know the four strokes
and the important components of this of
this engine cylinder and there generally
will be multiple cylinders
talk about one here and it could be for
there could be six there could be eight
or even 10 or even 12 sometimes so as
the engine becomes bigger and bigger you
have more cylinders and that gives us
more power